slides.md, before:

# Welcome to the ARCore & Sceneform Workshop

- Before we get started...
- Clone the project @ bit.ly/2HWr1D8
- These slides are linked from the README
- Make sure your Android Studio is updated to 3.1 or higher
- Set up an ARCore [supported device](https://developers.google.com/ar/discover/supported-devices)
- Or an ARCore [supported emulator](https://developers.google.com/ar/develop/java/emulator)

---

# About ARCore

- Google released ARCore in February 2018.
- ARCore helps devs build apps that can understand the environment around a device and place objects and information in it.

---

# About Sceneform

- Google followed up with Sceneform at I/O 2018.
- Sceneform helps devs render 3D scenes on Android without needing to learn OpenGL.

---

# Drawing a Cube Before Sceneform

```java
public class Cube {
    private static final float VERTICES[] = { -0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f};
    private static final float COLORS[] = { 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f};
    private static final byte INDICES[] = { 0, 1, 3, 3, 1, 2, 0, 1, 4, 4, 5, 1, 1, 2, 5, 5, 6, 2, 2, 3, 6, 6, 7, 3, 3, 7, 4, 4, 3, 0, 4, 5, 7, 7, 6, 5};
    private static final int COORDS_PER_VERTEX = 3;
    private static final int VALUES_PER_COLOR = 4;
    private final int VERTEX_STRIDE = COORDS_PER_VERTEX * 4;
    private final int COLOR_STRIDE = VALUES_PER_COLOR * 4;
    private static final String VERTEX_SHADER_CODE = "uniform mat4 uMVPMatrix;attribute vec4 vPosition;attribute vec4 vColor;varying vec4 _vColor;void main() {  _vColor = vColor;  gl_Position = uMVPMatrix * vPosition;}";
    private static final String FRAGMENT_SHADER_CODE = "precision mediump float;varying vec4 _vColor;void main() {  gl_FragColor = _vColor;}";
    private final FloatBuffer mVertexBuffer;
    private final FloatBuffer mColorBuffer;
    private final ByteBuffer mIndexBuffer;
    private final int mProgram;
    private final int mPositionHandle;
    private final int mColorHandle;
    private final int mMVPMatrixHandle;

    public Cube() {
        ByteBuffer byteBuffer = ByteBuffer.allocateDirect(VERTICES.length * 4);
        byteBuffer.order(ByteOrder.nativeOrder());
        mVertexBuffer = byteBuffer.asFloatBuffer();
        mVertexBuffer.put(VERTICES);
        mVertexBuffer.position(0);
        byteBuffer = ByteBuffer.allocateDirect(COLORS.length * 4);
        byteBuffer.order(ByteOrder.nativeOrder());
        mColorBuffer = byteBuffer.asFloatBuffer();
        mColorBuffer.put(COLORS);
        mColorBuffer.position(0);
        mIndexBuffer = ByteBuffer.allocateDirect(INDICES.length);
        mIndexBuffer.put(INDICES);
        mIndexBuffer.position(0);
        mProgram = GLES20.glCreateProgram();
        GLES20.glAttachShader(mProgram, loadShader(GLES20.GL_VERTEX_SHADER, VERTEX_SHADER_CODE));
        GLES20.glAttachShader(
                mProgram, loadShader(GLES20.GL_FRAGMENT_SHADER, FRAGMENT_SHADER_CODE));
        GLES20.glLinkProgram(mProgram);
        mPositionHandle = GLES20.glGetAttribLocation(mProgram, "vPosition");
        mColorHandle = GLES20.glGetAttribLocation(mProgram, "vColor");
        mMVPMatrixHandle = GLES20.glGetUniformLocation(mProgram, "uMVPMatrix");
    }

    public void draw(float[] mvpMatrix) {
        GLES20.glUseProgram(mProgram);
        GLES20.glEnableVertexAttribArray(mPositionHandle);
        GLES20.glVertexAttribPointer(
                mPositionHandle, 3, GLES20.GL_FLOAT, false, VERTEX_STRIDE, mVertexBuffer);
        GLES20.glEnableVertexAttribArray(mColorHandle);
        GLES20.glVertexAttribPointer(
                mColorHandle, 4, GLES20.GL_FLOAT, false, COLOR_STRIDE, mColorBuffer);
        GLES20.glUniformMatrix4fv(mMVPMatrixHandle, 1, false, mvpMatrix, 0);
        GLES20.glDrawElements(
                GLES20.GL_TRIANGLES, INDICES.length, GLES20.GL_UNSIGNED_BYTE, mIndexBuffer);
        GLES20.glDisableVertexAttribArray(mPositionHandle);
        GLES20.glDisableVertexAttribArray(mColorHandle);
    }

    private static int loadShader(int type, String shaderCode){
        int shader = GLES20.glCreateShader(type);
        GLES20.glShaderSource(shader, shaderCode);
        GLES20.glCompileShader(shader);
        return shader;
    }
}
```

---

# Drawing a Cube with Sceneform

```kotlin
val size = Vector3(1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f)
val position = Vector3(0.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f)

MaterialFactory.makeOpaqueWithColor(this, Color(Color.RED))
    .thenAccept(material -> ShapeFactory.makeCube(size, position, material))

```

---

# Add the dependency

In `app/build.gradle`

```groovy

dependencies {
	// ...

	implementation "com.google.ar.sceneform.ux:sceneform-ux:1.4.0"
}
```

---

# Configure the manifest

Setup camera in the `<manifest>` section

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera.ar" android:required="true" />
```

In the `<application>` section, add a Play Store filter for users on devices that are not supported by ARCore.

```xml
<meta-data android:name="com.google.ar.core" android:value="required" />
```

---

# Add the ARFragment

In `content_main.xml`

```xml
<fragment
   android:id="@+id/fragment"
   android:name="com.google.ar.sceneform.ux.ArFragment"
   android:layout_width="match_parent"
   android:layout_height="match_parent" />
```

---

# Run it!

---

# Emulator troubleshooting

- Check that your Android Emulator is updated to 27.2.9 or later.
- Follow the instructions linked in the README.

---

# AR Fundamentals

---

# Feature points

**feature points** are visually distinct features that ARCore detects in each captured camera image (e.g. the corner of a table, a mark on a wall)

---

# Motion Tracking

ARCore detects visually distinct **feature points** in each captured camera image and uses these points to compute a device's change in location over time.

---

# Motion tracking

Visual feature point information is combined with measurements from the device's Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU).

---

# Motion tracking

This combined data is used to estimate the **pose**, defined by **position** and **orientation**, of the device camera relative to the world over time.

---

# Pose

Everything in an AR scene has a **pose** within a 3D world coordinate space. 

Each **pose** is composed of:

- x-axis translation
- y-axis translation
- z-axis translation
- rotation

---

# Pose

Sceneform aligns the pose of the **virtual camera** that renders your 3D content with the pose of the device's camera provided by ARCore.

---

# Pose

Because the rendered virtual content is overlaid and aligned on top of the camera image, it appears as if your virtual content is part of the real world.

---

# Plane detection

ARCore looks for clusters of feature points that appear to lie on common horizontal or vertical surfaces and provides this data to Sceneform as **planes**. 

---

# Plane detection

A **plane** is composed of:

- A center **pose**
- An **extent** along each axis
- A **polygon**, a collection of 2D vertices approximating the detected plane.

---

# Plane detection

The Sceneform fragment renders a plane-grid to indicate via the UI where these planes exist.

![right 30%](images/plane-grid.png) 

---

# Goal: 
## When a user taps a point on the screen that intersects with a plane, we want to place an object at that point. 

___

# Hit test

We want to determine if a **ray** extending from the **x, y** coordinate of our tap intersects a plane. 

If it does, we'll place an **anchor** at the **pose of the intersection**.

---

# Hit test

In `MainActivity.kt`, set up the `ArFragment` with an `OnTapArPlaneListener`.

```kotlin
    private lateinit var arFragment: ArFragment

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        //...
        arFragment = fragment as ArFragment
        arFragment.setOnTapArPlaneListener { hitResult, plane, motionEvent ->
            // We've hit a plane!
        }
    }
```
---

# Hit Result

Represents _an intersection between a **ray** and estimated real-world **geometry**_ (e.g. a `Node` or a `Plane`).

We can use a `HitResult` to determine the `Pose` of the intersection, the distance from the camera,
or to create a new `Anchor` at the pose of intersection.

---

# Shapes

Let's start out by adding a sphere at that pose.

We can use Sceneform's `ShapeFactory` API to create renderable shapes: cubes, cylinders, and spheres to which we can apply materials such as surface colors or textures.

--- 

# Shapes

Create a new function in `MainActivity.kt`:

```kotlin
    private fun addSphere(color: Int, anchor: Anchor, radius: Float, centerX : Float, centerY: Float, centerZ : Float) {
        MaterialFactory.makeOpaqueWithColor(this, com.google.ar.sceneform.rendering.Color(color))
            .thenAccept { material ->
                val shape = ShapeFactory.makeSphere(radius, Vector3(centerX, centerY, centerZ), material)
                addNodeToScene(anchor, shape)
            }
    }
```

--- 

# Nodes

All of the virtual content in a AR experience is organized as a **scene graph**.

A **scene graph** is basically an n-tree, made up of **nodes** which can each have 0...n children.

--- 

# Nodes

We need a way to add our sphere to the **scene**. We'll do that by creating a `Node`, attached to an `Anchor` at the point of intersection.

---

# Nodes

Create a new function in `MainActivity.kt`:

```kotlin
    private fun addNodeToScene(anchor: Anchor, renderable: Renderable) {
        val anchorNode = AnchorNode(anchor)
        val node = TransformableNode(arFragment.transformationSystem)
        node.renderable = renderable
        node.setParent(anchorNode)
        arFragment.arSceneView.scene.addChild(anchorNode)
    }
```

--- 

# Anchors

Now we want to create an **anchor** based on the **hit result**, so that we can anchor our node to the pose on the plane we tap.

--- 

# Anchors

Create an anchor based on the `HitResult`, and use it to add a sphere to the scene.

```kotlin
    arFragment.setOnTapArPlaneListener { hitResult, plane, motionEvent ->
        val anchor = hitResult.createAnchor()
        addSphere(Color.RED, anchor, 0.1f, 0.0f, 0.15f, 0.0f)
    }
```

--- 

# Run it!

---

# Sceneform plugin

Sceneform has an Android Studio plugin for importing, editing, and previewing 3D models.

---

# Sceneform plugin: installation

Android Studio > Preferences > Plugins > browse repositories Google Sceneform Tools (Beta)

---

# Supported formats

Look in `app/sampledata/models`. We've provided some models. 

- `.obj` - encodes the 3D geometry of the model (e.g. vertices, polygon faces)
- `.mtl` - material referenced by the `.obj`, describes the surface of the model (e.g. color, texture, reflection)
- `.png` - optional visual texture referenced by the `.mtl` to be mapped onto the surface of the model

---

# Supported formats

In addition to Wavefront `obj`, Sceneform also supports importing:

- FBX, with or without animations
- glTF (animations not supported)

---

# Sceneform assets: importing

1. Select `app/sampledata/models/coffee.obj` and then right mouse click to get the menu.
2. Pick `New > Sceneform asset`.
3. Click `Finish`.

---

# Sceneform assets: editing

We've now converted into Sceneform's `.sfa` and `.sfb` formats.

- `.sfb` - Sceneform Binary, points to the models, material definitions, and textures in the source asset.
- `.sfa` - Sceneform Asset Definition, a human-readable description of the `.sfb`

___

# Import the rest of the models

Take a few minutes to import the three remaining models: `pasta.obj`, `pizza.obj`, and `tiramisu.obj`

---

# Sceneform assets: editing

---

# Loading assets

---

# Renderables

---

# Run it!

---

# Snap a photo

We can take a photo of our AR scene, including the virtual content, by capturing the `SurfaceView` (the class that `ArSceneView` descends from).

---

# Snap a photo

The app already includes a `CameraHelper.kt` class. Let's wire it up so that when the button is clicked, we take a photo.

```kotlin
    fab.setOnClickListener { view ->
        camera.snap()
    }
```

---

# Run it!

---

# Now for the fun stuff...

---

# Cloud anchors

---

# Augmented Faces

___

# Grazie!

Commit message:

start building out loading assets

slides.md, after:

# Welcome to the ARCore & Sceneform Workshop

- Before we get started...
- Clone the project @ bit.ly/2HWr1D8
- These slides are linked from the README
- Make sure your Android Studio is updated to 3.1 or higher
- Set up an ARCore [supported device](https://developers.google.com/ar/discover/supported-devices)
- Or an ARCore [supported emulator](https://developers.google.com/ar/develop/java/emulator)

---

# About ARCore

- Google released ARCore in February 2018.
- ARCore helps devs build apps that can understand the environment around a device and place objects and information in it.

---

# About Sceneform

- Google followed up with Sceneform at I/O 2018.
- Sceneform helps devs render 3D scenes on Android without needing to learn OpenGL.

---

# Drawing a Cube Before Sceneform

```java
public class Cube {
    private static final float VERTICES[] = { -0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f, -0.5f, 0.5f, 0.5f};
    private static final float COLORS[] = { 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 0.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f};
    private static final byte INDICES[] = { 0, 1, 3, 3, 1, 2, 0, 1, 4, 4, 5, 1, 1, 2, 5, 5, 6, 2, 2, 3, 6, 6, 7, 3, 3, 7, 4, 4, 3, 0, 4, 5, 7, 7, 6, 5};
    private static final int COORDS_PER_VERTEX = 3;
    private static final int VALUES_PER_COLOR = 4;
    private final int VERTEX_STRIDE = COORDS_PER_VERTEX * 4;
    private final int COLOR_STRIDE = VALUES_PER_COLOR * 4;
    private static final String VERTEX_SHADER_CODE = "uniform mat4 uMVPMatrix;attribute vec4 vPosition;attribute vec4 vColor;varying vec4 _vColor;void main() {  _vColor = vColor;  gl_Position = uMVPMatrix * vPosition;}";
    private static final String FRAGMENT_SHADER_CODE = "precision mediump float;varying vec4 _vColor;void main() {  gl_FragColor = _vColor;}";
    private final FloatBuffer mVertexBuffer;
    private final FloatBuffer mColorBuffer;
    private final ByteBuffer mIndexBuffer;
    private final int mProgram;
    private final int mPositionHandle;
    private final int mColorHandle;
    private final int mMVPMatrixHandle;

    public Cube() {
        ByteBuffer byteBuffer = ByteBuffer.allocateDirect(VERTICES.length * 4);
        byteBuffer.order(ByteOrder.nativeOrder());
        mVertexBuffer = byteBuffer.asFloatBuffer();
        mVertexBuffer.put(VERTICES);
        mVertexBuffer.position(0);
        byteBuffer = ByteBuffer.allocateDirect(COLORS.length * 4);
        byteBuffer.order(ByteOrder.nativeOrder());
        mColorBuffer = byteBuffer.asFloatBuffer();
        mColorBuffer.put(COLORS);
        mColorBuffer.position(0);
        mIndexBuffer = ByteBuffer.allocateDirect(INDICES.length);
        mIndexBuffer.put(INDICES);
        mIndexBuffer.position(0);
        mProgram = GLES20.glCreateProgram();
        GLES20.glAttachShader(mProgram, loadShader(GLES20.GL_VERTEX_SHADER, VERTEX_SHADER_CODE));
        GLES20.glAttachShader(
                mProgram, loadShader(GLES20.GL_FRAGMENT_SHADER, FRAGMENT_SHADER_CODE));
        GLES20.glLinkProgram(mProgram);
        mPositionHandle = GLES20.glGetAttribLocation(mProgram, "vPosition");
        mColorHandle = GLES20.glGetAttribLocation(mProgram, "vColor");
        mMVPMatrixHandle = GLES20.glGetUniformLocation(mProgram, "uMVPMatrix");
    }

    public void draw(float[] mvpMatrix) {
        GLES20.glUseProgram(mProgram);
        GLES20.glEnableVertexAttribArray(mPositionHandle);
        GLES20.glVertexAttribPointer(
                mPositionHandle, 3, GLES20.GL_FLOAT, false, VERTEX_STRIDE, mVertexBuffer);
        GLES20.glEnableVertexAttribArray(mColorHandle);
        GLES20.glVertexAttribPointer(
                mColorHandle, 4, GLES20.GL_FLOAT, false, COLOR_STRIDE, mColorBuffer);
        GLES20.glUniformMatrix4fv(mMVPMatrixHandle, 1, false, mvpMatrix, 0);
        GLES20.glDrawElements(
                GLES20.GL_TRIANGLES, INDICES.length, GLES20.GL_UNSIGNED_BYTE, mIndexBuffer);
        GLES20.glDisableVertexAttribArray(mPositionHandle);
        GLES20.glDisableVertexAttribArray(mColorHandle);
    }

    private static int loadShader(int type, String shaderCode){
        int shader = GLES20.glCreateShader(type);
        GLES20.glShaderSource(shader, shaderCode);
        GLES20.glCompileShader(shader);
        return shader;
    }
}
```

---

# Drawing a Cube with Sceneform

```kotlin
val size = Vector3(1.0f, 1.0f, 1.0f)
val position = Vector3(0.0f, 0.0f, 0.0f)

MaterialFactory.makeOpaqueWithColor(this, Color(Color.RED))
    .thenAccept(material -> ShapeFactory.makeCube(size, position, material))

```

---

# Add the dependency

In `app/build.gradle`

```groovy

dependencies {
	// ...

	implementation "com.google.ar.sceneform.ux:sceneform-ux:1.4.0"
}
```

---

# Configure the manifest

Setup camera in the `<manifest>` section

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA" />
<uses-feature android:name="android.hardware.camera.ar" android:required="true" />
```

In the `<application>` section, add a Play Store filter for users on devices that are not supported by ARCore.

```xml
<meta-data android:name="com.google.ar.core" android:value="required" />
```

---

# Add the ARFragment

In `content_main.xml`

```xml
<fragment
   android:id="@+id/fragment"
   android:name="com.google.ar.sceneform.ux.ArFragment"
   android:layout_width="match_parent"
   android:layout_height="match_parent" />
```

---

# Run it!

---

# Emulator troubleshooting

- Check that your Android Emulator is updated to 27.2.9 or later.
- Follow the instructions linked in the README.

---

# AR Fundamentals

---

# Feature points

**feature points** are visually distinct features that ARCore detects in each captured camera image (e.g. the corner of a table, a mark on a wall)

---

# Motion Tracking

ARCore detects visually distinct **feature points** in each captured camera image and uses these points to compute a device's change in location over time.

---

# Motion tracking

Visual feature point information is combined with measurements from the device's Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU).

---

# Motion tracking

This combined data is used to estimate the **pose**, defined by **position** and **orientation**, of the device camera relative to the world over time.

---

# Pose

Everything in an AR scene has a **pose** within a 3D world coordinate space. 

Each **pose** is composed of:

- x-axis translation
- y-axis translation
- z-axis translation
- rotation

---

# Pose

Sceneform aligns the pose of the **virtual camera** that renders your 3D content with the pose of the device's camera provided by ARCore.

---

# Pose

Because the rendered virtual content is overlaid and aligned on top of the camera image, it appears as if your virtual content is part of the real world.

---

# Plane detection

ARCore looks for clusters of feature points that appear to lie on common horizontal or vertical surfaces and provides this data to Sceneform as **planes**. 

---

# Plane detection

A **plane** is composed of:

- A center **pose**
- An **extent** along each axis
- A **polygon**, a collection of 2D vertices approximating the detected plane.

---

# Plane detection

The Sceneform fragment renders a plane-grid to indicate via the UI where these planes exist.

![right 30%](images/plane-grid.png) 

---

# Goal: 
## When a user taps a point on the screen that intersects with a plane, we want to place an object at that point. 

___

# Hit test

We want to determine if a **ray** extending from the **x, y** coordinate of our tap intersects a plane. 

If it does, we'll place an **anchor** at the **pose of the intersection**.

---

# Hit test

In `MainActivity.kt`, set up the `ArFragment` with an `OnTapArPlaneListener`.

```kotlin
    private lateinit var arFragment: ArFragment

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        //...
        arFragment = fragment as ArFragment
        arFragment.setOnTapArPlaneListener { hitResult, plane, motionEvent ->
            // We've hit a plane!
        }
    }
```
---

# Hit Result

Represents _an intersection between a **ray** and estimated real-world **geometry**_ (e.g. a `Node` or a `Plane`).

We can use a `HitResult` to determine the `Pose` of the intersection, the distance from the camera,
or to create a new `Anchor` at the pose of intersection.

---

# Shapes

Let's start out by adding a sphere at that pose.

We can use Sceneform's `ShapeFactory` API to create renderable shapes: cubes, cylinders, and spheres to which we can apply materials such as surface colors or textures.

--- 

# Shapes

Create a new function in `MainActivity.kt`:

```kotlin
    private fun addSphere(color: Int, anchor: Anchor, radius: Float, centerX : Float, centerY: Float, centerZ : Float) {
        MaterialFactory.makeOpaqueWithColor(this, com.google.ar.sceneform.rendering.Color(color))
            .thenAccept { material ->
                val shape = ShapeFactory.makeSphere(radius, Vector3(centerX, centerY, centerZ), material)
                addNodeToScene(anchor, shape)
            }
    }
```

--- 

# Nodes

All of the virtual content in a AR experience is organized as a **scene graph**.

A **scene graph** is basically an n-tree, made up of **nodes** which can each have 0...n children.

--- 

# Nodes

We need a way to add our sphere to the **scene**. We'll do that by creating a `Node`, attached to an `Anchor` at the point of intersection.

---

# Nodes

Create a new function in `MainActivity.kt`:

```kotlin
    private fun addNodeToScene(anchor: Anchor, renderable: Renderable) {
        val anchorNode = AnchorNode(anchor)
        val node = TransformableNode(arFragment.transformationSystem)
        node.renderable = renderable
        node.setParent(anchorNode)
        arFragment.arSceneView.scene.addChild(anchorNode)
    }
```

--- 

# Anchors

Now we want to create an **anchor** based on the **hit result**, so that we can anchor our node to the pose on the plane we tap.

--- 

# Anchors

Create an anchor based on the `HitResult`, and use it to add a sphere to the scene.

```kotlin
    arFragment.setOnTapArPlaneListener { hitResult, plane, motionEvent ->
        val anchor = hitResult.createAnchor()
        addSphere(Color.RED, anchor, 0.1f, 0.0f, 0.15f, 0.0f)
    }
```

--- 

# Run it!

---

# Sceneform plugin

Sceneform has an Android Studio plugin for importing, editing, and previewing 3D models.

---

# Sceneform plugin: installation

Android Studio > Preferences > Plugins > browse repositories Google Sceneform Tools (Beta)

---

# Supported formats

Look in `app/sampledata/models`. We've provided some models. 

- `.obj` - encodes the 3D geometry of the model (e.g. vertices, polygon faces)
- `.mtl` - material referenced by the `.obj`, describes the surface of the model (e.g. color, texture, reflection)
- `.png` - optional visual texture referenced by the `.mtl` to be mapped onto the surface of the model

---

# Supported formats

In addition to Wavefront `obj`, Sceneform also supports importing:

- FBX, with or without animations
- glTF (animations not supported)

---

# Sceneform assets: importing

1. Select `app/sampledata/models/coffee.obj` and then right mouse click to get the menu.
2. Pick `New > Sceneform asset`.
3. Click `Finish`.

---

# Sceneform assets: editing

We've now converted into Sceneform's `.sfa` and `.sfb` formats.

- `.sfb` - Sceneform Binary, points to the models, material definitions, and textures in the source asset.
- `.sfa` - Sceneform Asset Definition, a human-readable description of the `.sfb`

___

# Import the rest of the models

Take a few minutes to import the three remaining models: `pasta.obj`, `pizza.obj`, and `tiramisu.obj`

---

# Goal: When a user taps, we want to place the selected object from the gallery at that point.

---

# Loading assets



---

# Renderables

---

# Run it!

---

# Adjusting Scale

---

# Snap a photo

We can take a photo of our AR scene, including the virtual content, by capturing the `SurfaceView` (the class that `ArSceneView` descends from).

---

# Snap a photo

The app already includes a `CameraHelper.kt` class. Let's wire it up so that when the button is clicked, we take a photo.

```kotlin
    fab.setOnClickListener { view ->
        camera.snap()
    }
```

---

# Run it!

---

# Now for the fun stuff...

---

# Cloud anchors

---

# Augmented Faces

___

# Grazie!
